M in this document represents the modifier key Alt; the Mod key.
C in this document represents the modifier key Ctrl.
Spc in this document represents the spacebar.
DEL in this document represents the backspace key.
RET in this document represents the enter key; the return key.

The caret is the object that is before, over, and after the text while you're typing. The crosshair of text editing.

Think of C-x as "Control the execution of ____ command."

[Essentials]

C-h t for interactive tutorials.
C-h i for the entirety of Emacs' documentation. 

C-g gimps the current macro in progress.
ESC ESC ESC also gimps the current macro in progress.

[Find and Replace]

C-s finds text going forward.
C-r finds text going backwards.

After querying the text in the direction of choice, press the same hotkey to go over results in that order.

M-x occur RET will open a buffer with all matching text based on what you search. Each result can be clicked to teleport the caret to that position.

C-M-% (Shift-5) will initiate find and replace in regexp. Use y/n to confirm or veto a replacement.

M-% is find and replace for strings.

[Editing]

C-Spc enters a Vim-esque modal selection mode.
The arrow keys in selection mode will guide the caret.

Spc in selection mode will disengage.

M-w copies text.
C-w cuts text.
C-y pastes text.
M-y pastes text from history.
C-x u will undo a command.
ESC-DEL will backspace entire words.

C-d is forwards deletion.

[Navigation]

C-n for next line downwards. (next)
C-p for next line upwards. (previous)
C-v for page down.
M-v for page up. 
M-S-< will bring the caret to the start of the document.
M-S-> lowers the caret to the bottom of the document.
C-Up leaps the caret upwards a few lines.
C-Down drops the caret downwards a few lines.

C-e for end of line. (end)
C-a for beginning of line. (alpha)
M-g g to move to a specific line.
C-x C-s to save a document.
C-x d to open a directory.
C-x i to insert a file.

[Frame Navigation]

Navigate through buffers with C-x o. 
Open a buffer horizontally with C-x 2.
Open a buffer vertically with C-x 3.

Remove all but the active buffer with C-x 0.

Find a specific buffer with C-x b.

List all buffers with C-x C-b. The selected buffer will open in the same frame as the menu for selecting it..

Kill a buffer with C-x k.

M-x shell RET will bring up a shell.
M-x tab-bar-mode RET will enable tabs in a bar above the frame. 
M-x eww RET will bring up the browser. You can use it as a search engine without havinga specific link for it. 

Avoid C-z in the browser.

F10 to open drop-down menu.
C-c will exit Emacs. You will be prompted to save whatever, in short.

